# 14 - AI [aɪ] as in BUY

## [English: How to Pronounce AI [aɪ] Diphthong](https://rachelsenglish.com/english-pronounce-ai-diphthong/)

A diphthong is two vowel sounds together.  That means your mouth has to move:
there is a beginning and an ending position.  Study this diphthong with
illustrations and up close, slow motion speech.

### Video Text:
```
The ‘ai’ as in ‘buy’ diphthong.  The first sound of this diphthong does not
occur on its own as a vowel in American English.  A, a, ai.  It’s similar to
the ‘aa’ as in ‘bat’ in that the back of the tongue raises towards the soft
palate, but it doesn’t raise as  high as it does in the ‘aa’ as in ‘bat’ vowel,
a, a, ai.  Also, you may find that the corners of the lips pull out a little
bit, and the top lip raises a bit, exposing some of those front teeth, a, a.
The tip of the tongue remains forward in this sound, lightly touching behind
the bottom front teeth.  The second sound of the diphthong is the ‘ih’ as in
‘sit’.  In this sound, the tip of the tongue is also forward, touching just
behind the bottom front teeth.  So that does not move in this diphthong.
However, the front/mid part of the tongue does raise towards the roof of the
mouth, ai, ai.  So as it reaches up towards the roof of the mouth, the jaw will
close somewhat, ai, ai, buy.

Here we see the two sounds of this diphthong. You can see in the first sound,
aa, that the jaw is more dropped. On the second sound, ‘ih’, the tongue is more
forward. Here are the two sounds in profile. Again, note that in the first
sound, the jaw is dropped more. Here, parts of the mouth are drawn in. you can
see that the tongue position in the first sound is drawn slightly back, which
makes it flatter. In the second sound, the tongue is much more raised in the
front. In both sounds, the tip of the tongue does lightly touch behind the
bottom front teeth. The ‘ai’ as in ‘buy’ diphthong.  Sample words: shy, write,
good-bye. Sample sentence: My sister is bright with a nice sense of style. Now
you will see this sentence up close and in slow motion, both straight on and
from an angle, so you can really study how the mouth moves when making this
sound.

My, lips press together for the M, jaw drops, here’s the ‘ai’ as in ‘buy’
diphthong, you could see the tongue come up towards the end. Sister is bright,
lips come together for the B. And here it is again, the ‘ai’ as in ‘buy’
diphthong. Tongue down and then pushes up towards the front. The tip goes up to
make the T. Lips come together for the W. With a nice – tongue up for the N and
drops for the ‘ai’ as in ‘buy’ diphthong. Sense of, lip comes up to make the V
sound, style. Another ‘ai’ as in ‘buy’ diphthong. Jaw drops for the first part,
tongue moves up for the second part, and the dark L.

Now from the angle. My, ‘ai’ as in ‘buy’ diphthong. Jaw drops for the first
part and then the middle-front part of the tongue moves up for the second part.
Sister is bright, another ‘ai’ as in ‘buy’. Jaw drops, forward part of the
tongue moves up, and now here the tip goes up to make the T. With a, tongue tip
up to make N and drops, ai, nice, sense of, lip up to make the V sound. Style,
another ‘ai’ as in ‘buy’ diphthong. Jaw drops, tongue is down, and then the
mid-front part of the tongue raises to make the second part of the diphthong.
That’s it, and thanks so much for using Rachel’s English.
```
