# 15 - OY [ɔɪ] as in TOY

## [English: How to Pronounce OY [ɔɪ] Diphthong](https://rachelsenglish.com/english-pronounce-oy-diphthong/)

A diphthong is two vowel sounds together. That means your mouth has to move:
there is a beginning and an ending position. Study this diphthong with
illustrations and up close, slow motion speech.

### Video Text:
```
The ‘oy’ as in ‘toy’ diphthong. The first vowel of this diphthong is the ‘aw’
as in ‘law’ vowel. However, in the diphthong, the lips will round more than
when the ‘aw’ as in ‘law’ is simply a vowel in American English. Law, oy. Did
you see how the lips shifted into a tighter position? Law, oy. The tongue
position, however, is the ‘aw’ as in ‘law’ tongue position. It is slightly
raised and shifted a bit back, o, o, so the tip of the tongue is not touching
anything. The second sound is the ‘ih’ as in ‘sit’ vowel. To make this sound,
the tongue will come forward and the tip will touch lightly behind the bottom
front teeth. The mid part of the tongue will raise towards the roof of the
mouth, oy, oy. And you can see the corners of the lips will pull out of the
circle, oy, oy, and back.

Here are the two sounds of this diphthong. You can see in the first sound that
the lips are rounded, and in the second sound that the corners of the lips pull
back slightly. Here the two sounds are in profile with parts of the mouth drawn
in. In the first sound the tongue is pulled back, in the second sound, the
front part of the tongue raises towards the roof of the mouth while the tip of
the tongue touches the bottom front teeth. The ‘oy’ as in ‘toy’diphthong.
Sample words: avoid, point, enjoyable.Sample sentence. The boy is annoying, but
a loyal employee.Now you’ll see this sentence up close and in slow motion, both
straight on and from an angle, so you can really study how the mouth moves when
making this sound.

The, the tongue comes through the teeth for the TH sound. Boy, lips together
for the B, and here, the ‘oy’ as in ‘toy’ diphthong. The lips are rounded and
you cannot see the tongue, at it is back. The the corners of the lips pull out
as the front part of the tongue raises. Is, teeth together for the Z sound.
Annoying again the lips round for the ‘oy’ as in ‘toy’ diphthong. Front part of
the tongue raises at the end. But, lips together for the B. A loyal, again, the
‘oy’ as in ‘toy’ diphthong where the lips round at the beginning and then
stretch wider. Next the dark L sound and the tongue comes up to make the final
L. Employee, again, the ‘oy’ as in ‘toy’ diphthong, and the corners of the lips
pull wide for the ‘ee’ as in ‘she’.

The, tongue tip through the teeth for the TH sound. Boy, watch here the lips
are rounded and then the corners pull out as the front part of the tongue comes
forward and raises. Is, teeth together for the Z sound. Annoying, again, watch
how the mouth moves through the ‘oy’ as in ‘toy’ diphthong. But, lips together
for the B. Tongue tip up to make the D, how the T is pronounced, and again for
the L. Loyal, the ‘oy’ as in ‘toy’ diphthong. Employee, lips together for the
M. Tongue up and then down to make the L, and again the ‘oy’ as in ‘toy’
diphthong. And the corners of the lips pull wide for the ‘ee’ as in ‘she’.
Employee. That’s it, and thanks so much for using Rachel’s English.
```
