# 16 - OH [oʊ] as in NO

## [English: How to Pronounce OH [oʊ] Diphthong](https://rachelsenglish.com/english-pronounce-oh-diphthong/)

A diphthong is two vowel sounds together.  That means your mouth has to move:
there is a beginning and an ending position.  Study this diphthong with
illustrations and up close, slow motion speech.

### Video Text:
```
The ‘oh’ as in ‘no’ diphthong. The first sound of this diphthong does not occur
on its own as a vowel in American English, o, o, oh. You can see the lips have
a rounded position, o, oh. The tongue raises up a bit in the back towards the
soft palate. In general, the tongue raises some and shifts back a bit, o, o.
This means the tip of the tongue, pulled slightly back, is not touching
anything. The second sound is the ‘uh’ as in ‘pull’ vowel sound, though, in
this diphthong, the lips will round more for the second sound than when the
‘uh’ as in ‘pull’ occurs on its own as a vowel. Oh, you can see that tighter
circle. The back part of the tongue will stretch even further towards the soft
palate in the second half of this diphthong. The tip of the tongue, usually
touching behind the bottom front teeth for the ‘uh’ as in ‘pull’ vowel, may be
slightly further back because it was further back in the first half of the
diphthong. Oh, no.

Here we see both sounds of the diphthong. In the first sound, you can see the
jaw is dropped more. In both sounds the lips are rounded, but they are more
rounded in the second sound. Here are the two sounds in profile. Again, note
that the jaw has dropped more for the first sound. Here, parts of the mouth are
drawn in. In the first sound, the tongue is pulled slightly back and up. In the
second sound, it stretches up even more towards the soft palate.In both sounds,
the tongue tip is not quite touching the bottom front teeth. Sample words:
lonely, owner, telephone. Sample sentence: The window of the hotel was blown
out and broken. Now you will see this sentence up close and in slow motion,
both straight on and from an angle, so you can really study how the mouth moves
when making this sound.

The. Tongue through the teeth for the TH sound. Window, lips make the W shape,
tongue up for the N. Teeth together for the D. And here a quick ‘oh’ as in ‘no’
diphthong. Of, bottom lip up for the V, the hotel, again, ‘oh’ as in ‘no’, ‘eh’
as in ‘bed’, and the tongue up for the L. Was blown, the ‘oh’ as in ‘no’, you
can see the lips rounding more at the end. Out, with the ‘ow’ as in ‘now’
diphthong. And broken. Lips together for the B, R, and here is the ‘oh’ as in
‘no’ diphthong. Broken.

And from an angle. Tongue through the teeth for the TH. The window, lips make
the W. Tongue up for the N and D. And here is an ‘oh’ as in ‘no’.  You see the
lips round more at the end. Of the ho-, again ‘oh’ as in ‘no’, you see the
tongue move back, hotel. Lips together for the T. ‘Eh’ as in ‘bed’ and the
tongue comes forward for the L. Was blown, lips together for the B. Tongue up
for the L and down, ‘oh’ as in ‘no’, again you see the tongue moving back.
Tongue up for the N. Out. Teeth together for the T. And broken, lips together
for the B, again an ‘oh’ as in ‘no’ diphthong, forming a tight circle at the
end. Broken. Tongue tip up to make the N. That’s it, and thanks so much for
using Rachel’s English.
```
